§2世界的原委
§3The Whole Story

by Eugene2000

§2第一章 猪人的新家
§3Chapter I Pigmen's New Home

§2世界上的第一个僵尸猪人，来自于一只被闪电劈中的猪。
§3The first zombie pigman in the world came from a pig stroke by a lightning bolt.

§2接下来是第二只，第三只，第四只…
§3Following that, the second, third, fourth...

§2自从这个世界有了闪电，便有了僵尸猪人。
§3Since lightning bolts existed, so did zombie piglins.

§2僵尸猪人漫无目的地在主世界游荡，毕竟他们什么也不知道。
§3At the very beginning, zombie pigmen just roamed around the world aimlessly. After all, they knew nothing.

§2后来，他们遇到了村庄。
§3Until they stumbled upon a village.

§2村民从未见过这些猪头人身的生物。当一只猪人走得离村民太近时，谨慎的傀儡阻止了它。
§3Villagers had never seen those pig-headed creatures before. When a pigmen came too close to a villager, a cautious golem stopped it.

§2肢体冲突发生了。
§3Conflict arose.

§2猪人们开始发狂，这个世界上第一场战争引燃了。
§3Pigmen went berserk. Then the first conflict in the world happened.

§2猪人们把铁傀儡撕成了碎片，还咬伤了村民。
§3Pigmen tore the golem apart and bit the villagers.

§2世界上第一个僵尸村民诞生了。
§3Then there was the first zombie villager.

§2这群泛着诡异绿色的、无法再生长的生物就这样留在了世界中，等待他们的只有变成一具具行走的骷髅。
§3Since then, these eerie, non-regenerating, and green-skinned creatures just stood in the Overworld, awaiting nothing but to turn into walking skeletons.

§2唯一的区别是，僵尸猪人经受了闪电的魔法，使得他们能够耐住高温，而僵尸村民连阳光都无法承受——他们会在阳光下自燃。
§3The only difference is that pigmen had endured the lightning bolts and their magic, which enabled them to withstand the heat, while the zombie villagers couldn't even survive the sunlight—they would just burst into flames under its exposure.

§2从此，僵尸村民躲在废弃的村庄里，躲在森林和山洞里，而僵尸猪人游荡在单调的大地上，无意识地捡起地上的东西，包括从村民箱子中散落出来的金苹果。
§3Henceforth, zombie villagers had to hide in the shadows of the abandoned villages, forests, and caves, while the zombie pigmen roamed through the plain Overworld, picking up items from the ground unconsciously, including the golden apples scattered from villagers' chests.

§2偶尔，它们会被手中的东西吸引，并咬上一口——通常情况下什么也不会发生，但当一只手持金苹果的僵尸猪人咬了一口，世界上第一个猪人便诞生了。只是很快，这个猪人由于太冷，又变回了僵尸猪人。
§3Occasionally, they were drawn to the items in their hands, and they took some bite. Usually, nothing would happen, but when a zombie pigman took a bite of a golden apple, there was the first pigman in the world. Yet soon after, this pigman zombified due to the cold air.

§2时间依然往前走着，漫长的岁月过去了。
§3Time went on. A long age passed.

§2在沧海桑田的进程中，岩浆和水在无法被想象的微小几率下相遇，形成了小小的黑曜石闭环。
§3The sea rose, the mountains fell. During this process, lava and water met each other. And in a circumstance where the probability of occurrence is unimaginably low, they formed a small obsidian ring.

§2再后来，岩浆和水褪去了。
§3Still, time moves forward, lava and water receded.

§2一天，闪电降临到了这个闭环中——霎那间，一张紫色的、涌动的、温暖的发光薄膜充斥了整个黑曜石闭环。
§3One day, a lightning bolt struck the ring, and in an instant, a warm, turbulent, glowing purple film filled the ring.

§2一张通往另一个世界的薄膜。
§3A gateway leading to another world.

§2在漫长的岁月中，偶尔有一些动物穿过了这张薄膜，其中包括了一些僵尸猪人，和一些刚刚吃下金苹果获得了意识的、想要躲避寒冷的猪人。
§3Over the long age, occasionally some creatures went through the film, including some zombie pigmen, and some pigmen who just ate the golden apples and gained consciousness and wanted to avoid the cold air in the Overworld.

§2炙热的下界使得猪人不会再僵尸化。
§3The intense heat of the Nether prevented piglins from zombifying.

§2猪人到家了。
§3Pigmen were home.

§2第二章 比传奇更传奇的传奇
§3Chapter II A Legend More Legendary than the Legends

§2当猪人再次回到主世界，他们已经变了样子，他们的头更大，更有智慧；身躯更壮硕，甚至壮硕得夸张…当然，他们的野心也和身躯一起膨胀了。他们现在应该叫猪灵。
§3When the piglins returned to the Overworld, they had changed; their heads were larger and more intelligent; their bodies, more robust, even exaggerated... Of course, their ambitions had also swelled along with their bodies. They should now be called piglins.

§2猪灵凭着祖先模糊的记忆，找到了当初那个小小的传送口。
§3Drawing on the vague memories of their ancestors, piglins found that tiny ring-shaped portal, and came back to the Overworld.

§2回到主世界，他们便建造了更多更大的传送门，释放出猪灵大军，挥舞烈焰棒，践踏草地。
§3Once got back here, they constructed more and bigger portals, releasing armies of piglins, wielding blaze rods, trampling the grasslands.

§2猪人与村民的第二次战争爆发了，只不过这一次村民毫无还手之力。
§3The second conflict between piglins and villagers occurred. Only this time, a war.
§3A war that villagers had no means of resistance.

§2一个方块人从世界的中心出现了。
§3Then a blocky figure emerged from the center of the world.

§2其带着非凡的使命而来，召集天下生灵，与猪灵们决一死战。
§3It came with an extraordinary mission--form alliances with creatures in the Overworld, and fight against the piglins.

§2但故事并非一帆风顺，巨大的猪灵如入无人之境，将主世界的生灵像浆果一样踩碎。
§3But the story wasn't always so straightforward. Colossal piglins wiped out everything, and crushed creatures like crushing grasps.

§2方块人将自己关进生命之笼以复制出更多的军队，和村民相互感染为僵尸以获得更强的力量，甚至不惜召唤出巨人以抗衡硕大无比的猪灵。
§3The blocky figure locked itself in the Cage of Life to replicate itself for armies, infected virus from the zombie villagers to gain stronger power and even maximized others to be giants to compete against the huge piglins.

§2日以继夜，地表的青金石早已耗竭，矿道四通八达，如蛇一般探索并吞食地底的青金石，并输送到地底的生命之笼中，成为生产大军的燃料。
§3Day and night, lapis lazuli was mined to be used as fuels for the cages of life. Not before long, the lapis lazuli on the surface was depleted. The mineshafts stretched deep down for the ores, and the dungeons hidden underground never stopped spawning the zombie armies.

§2隐秘的地牢源源不断地产出僵尸大军，终于让主世界的力量扳回战局。
§3Finally, the armies of Overworld gained the upper hand.

§2人们易守为攻，甚至趁胜追击，将战线推进了下界。他们修筑了堡垒，直至将猪灵打退到绯红森林中。
They turned defense into attack, pressed the advantage, and pursued the piglins all the way to the Nether. There, they built the fortresses and drove the piglins to the crimson forests. And made sure they would never come out.

§2第三章 绽放的凋灵玫瑰
§3Chapter III The Bloom of the Wither Rose

§2当猪灵躲进了易于藏匿的绯红森林并失去战斗意愿，驻留在下界的军队便没有了进攻的需要。他们变成了守军，守护着供主世界当作运输捷径使用的下界传送门。
§3When the piglin armies were crippled, the war came to an end. The Overworld armies stayed in the fortresses and had new missions now: to guard the portals, which were used by people in the Overworld as a fast way to travel.

§2但下界不是一个适合久留的地方。事实上，这里会吞噬灵魂。
§3But what they didn't know is, the Nether is not a good place to settle. In fact, it devoured souls.

§2人们尝试过将下界改造得如主世界一般怡人。尽管他们并未成功，但也不至于太糟，只不过是水永远会蒸发得一干二净，且只有蘑菇能种在下界的土地上。
§3People tried to transform the Nether and make it as pleasant as the Overworld. Although they did not succeed, it was not too bad. It's just that water always evaporated immediately when poured, and only mushrooms could grow in the Nether.

§2直到一个骷髅守兵尝试将一枝玫瑰种到灵魂沙上。
§3Until a skeleton guard tried to plant a flower on the soul sand.
§3A rose.

§2玫瑰凋零了。
§3Then the rose withered.

§2骷髅也凋零了。
§3And the skeleton withered, too.

§2灵魂沙中的恶意被释放了出来，并迅速在下界传播，使得人们干戈相向。凋灵玫瑰凶恶地绽放着，更多的躯体倒在灵魂沙上，将新的灵魂禁锢在沙子里。
§3The malice sealed in the soul was released, and spread in the Nether swiftly, causing creatures to turn against each other. 

§2数不清的凋灵骷髅头骨掉在灵魂沙上，另一种强大的生物诞生了。
§3Countless heads and skulls fell on the soul sand, and hence, giving rise to a powerful and horrible creature. 

§2凋灵。
§3The Wither.

§2它由无数个满怀怨恨的灵魂纠缠而成，对生者报以最大的敌意。对亡者施以最恐怖的命令。
§3It is entwined by numerous rancorous souls, with the greatest hostility towards the living, and gave the most terrifying command to the undead.

§2杀死所有生者。
§3Kill all the living.

§2主世界再一次成为了战场。
§3The Overworld once again became a battlefield.

§2第四章 带信标回家
§3Chapter IV Bring Home the Beacon

§2凋灵呼啸着冲出了传送门，让主世界生灵涂炭。
§3Withers howled and rushed out of the portals, bringing devastation to the inhabitants of the Overworld.

§2昔日并肩作战的亡灵队友，如今是最致命的怪物。那些深埋在地下的生命之笼，如今成为了给世界带来苦难的刷怪笼。
§3The undead fellows who fought side by side in the past are now the deadliest monsters. The cages of life buried deep underground had then become monster spawners.

§2好在凋灵并非不可战胜。而出人意料的是，在杀死几只凋灵之后，战争就结束了。
§3Fortunately, the withers weren't invincible. And unexpectedly, after killing a few withers, the war ended.

§2凋灵的恶意如此纯粹，以至于它们的内核形成了星形结晶，当凋灵死去的时候，结晶放射出洁白的光芒，压制了周围亡灵生物的敌意。人们用玻璃和黑曜石汇集它的能量，朝天发射了激光，以此压制了世上所有敌意。
§3The malice of the withers was so pure that their cores formed star-shaped crystals. When the withers died, the crystals emitted a pure white light, suppressing the malice of the surrounding undead creatures. People used glass and obsidian to harness its energy and launch a beam into the sky, thereby suppressing all hostility in the world.

§2人们终于明白下界不是一个值得连接的世界。他们将传送门统统摧毁，没有了水，黑曜石便无法形成，也就无法从下界建造新的传送门。
§3And they finally realized that the Nether wasn't a dimension worth connecting. They destroyed all the portals. Without water, the obsidian cannot be formed in the Nether, hence there was no way to build a portal in the Nether.

§2至此，一切都变得很和谐。人们建立定居点，开辟路线，采集资源，相互贸易。神殿里信标的光柱令人心安地旋转着，主世界欣欣向荣。
§3From then on, everything became harmonious. People established settlements, opened routes, gathered resources, and traded. The beams of the beacons reached out from the temples, spinning peacefully, and the Overworld flourished.

§2第五章 龙
§3Chapter V The Dragon

§2和平持续了相当长一段时间。直到有一天，信标引来了另一个维度的生物。
§3Peace lasted for quite some time., until one day, the beacon attracted some creatures from another dimension.

§2一条龙。
§3The dragons.

§2它们肆意喷撒着龙息，将村庄燃为灰烬。
§3them sprayed their breath recklessly, burning the villages to ashes.

§2方块人们开始反击。但输多赢少。
§3People fought back, but barely won.

§2当巨龙死亡的时候，身体迸发出紫色的光芒，并掉下一种珍珠。
§3When dragons die, they burst out purple light, and drop pearls.

§2可以让人在空间内传送的珍珠。
§3Pearls that enable people to teleport.

§2龙的肆虐让主世界遭受了不亚于猪灵和凋灵带来的伤害。
§3The dragons' rampage and firing had caused damage to the Overworld no less than that of piglins or the wither. 

§2它们的步伐无法被阻止，它们龙息燃烧一切，它们的身躯击碎所有。地表已不再安全。人们躲进了深深的地底，他们在那里建立要塞，查阅古籍，用各种材料对珍珠进行加工。终于，他们造出了末影之眼，进而建造出末地传送门。
§3They could not be stopped, their breath burned everything, their bodies shattered everything. The surface was no longer safe, people retreated deep underground. There, they built the strongholds, consulted ancient books, and processed the pearls with various materials. Finally, they created the Eye of Ender and subsequently built the End Portal.

§2最初的屠龙之旅开始了。
§3The initial dragon-slaying journey has begun.

§2第六章 单程票	
§3Chapter VI One-Way Ticket

§2末地的荒芜让人绝望。但更让人绝望的是，来到末地的人，永远无法回到主世界。
§3The desolation of the End made people despair. Even more despairing, those who ventured into the End could never return to the Overworld.

§2而主世界的人由于收不到末地的任何消息，只能当作先遣队已经牺牲。
§3As people of the Overworld received no news from the End, they could only assume that the advance party had perished.

§2巨龙猎杀着地上的生物，燃烧村庄，甚至能轻而易举地掏空地壳，形成洞穴与裂谷，迫使着绝望的人们继续往末地派出军队。
§3The Ender Dragon preyed upon the creatures on the surface burned villages, and could effortlessly hollow out the crust, creating caves and cliffs, forcing desperate people to continue sending armies to the End.

§2就这样，主世界的人们一遍又一遍地、徒劳地重现着单程票悲剧。
§3And so, the people of the Overworld repeatedly and futilely reenacted the tragedy of one-way tickets.

§2人口大大缩水，文明停滞了。
§3The population drastically dwindles, and civilization stagnates.

§2只有时间不断往前走。
§3Only time keeps moving forward.

§2第七章 执念
§3Chapter VII Obsession

§2又是一段漫长的岁月。
§3It was another long time.

§2主世界已经十分寂寥了。村庄变成了地表上的零星斑点，广袤的大地上满目疮痍。
§3The Overworld had become desolate. Villages turned into sporadic spots on the surface, and the vast land lay in ruins.

§2直到一天夜里，人们突然看到一个瘦长的黑影在视野中凭空出现。
§3Until one night, people suddenly saw a slender black figure appeared out of thin air in their field of vision.

§2它的眼睛散发着紫色的光芒，它的口中嘟囔着无人能听懂的话语。
§3Its eyes emitted a purple glow, and it murmured incomprehensible words.

§2但人们还没来得及了解更多，灭顶之灾便已降临。
§3But before people could learn more, calamity struck.

§2一夜之间，所有神殿中的信标都消失了。
§3In a single night, all the beacons in the temples vanished.

§2被信标压制的恶意卷土重来，喷涌而出，一夜之间，熟睡中的人便毫无防备地被亡灵生物灭绝了。
§3Malevolence, suppressed by the beacons, resurged and surged forth. Overnight, unsuspecting people in their slumber were wiped out by the undead.

§2从此，
§3Since then,

§2人和龙，
§3humans and dragons,

§2都消失了。
§3both vanished.

§2第八章 烂柯人
§3Chapter VIII Lankeren

§2在那个繁荣的时代，普通的一天里，一个普通人上山砍柴。
§3Back in that prosperous era, on an ordinary day, an ordinary person went up the mountain to chop wood.

§2突然，面前的空气被撑开了，星空将其包裹。
§3Suddenly, the air in front of them was ripped open, enveloping them in the starry sky.

§2砍柴人就这样沉睡了过去。
§3The woodcutter fell into a deep slumber.

§2直到悦灵轻轻吟唱。
§3Until the allay softly sang.
